#summary Brief description of classes.
#labels Featured

 * Trie builder
  * TrieBuilder
   * builds a trie from a sorted lexicon.
 * Tries
  * TrieBase
   * defines a common interface of tries.
   * defines useful functions that uses the common interface.
  * Array-based tries
   * Common features
    * uses invisible nodes to store values.
   * BasicTrie
    * uses a sequential search to find a specified child and it requires O(_n_) time.
    * requires 5 bytes per node.
   * TernaryTrie
    * uses a binary search to find a specified child and it requires O(log _n_) time.
    * requires 8 bytes per node.
   * DaTrie
    * uses an offset to calculate the index of a specified child and it requires O(1) time.
    * requires 8 bytes per node.
    * uses a compact variant of double-array trie.
  * Succinct ordered tree-based tries
   * Common features
    * uses a sequential search to find a specified child and it requires O(_n_) operations.
    * requires (1 + (3/8 x _A_)) bytes per node and 4 bytes per value where _A_ depends on the type of succinct bit vector.
    * uses BasicSuccinctBitVector in default.
   * SuccinctTrie<>
    * uses a level-order binary marked representation.
    * requires 1 rank() to get a value, a first child, or a next sibling.
   * LoudsTrie<>
    * uses a level-order unary degree sequence (LOUDS).
    * requires 1 rank() to get a label or a value.
    * requires 1 rank() and 1 select() to get a first child.
   * LoudsPlusTrie<>
    * uses a variant of level-order unary degree sequence (LOUDS++).
    * requires 1 rank() to get a value.
    * requires 2 calls of rank() and 1 select() to get a first child.
 * Succinct bit vectors
  * Common features
   * provides a constant time rank().
   * uses a binary search in select() and it requires O(log _n_) time.
   * requires _A_ _n_ bits for a bit vector of _n_ bits.
  * BasicSuccinctBitVector
   * uses 2 level precomputed rank().
   * requires 11/8 _n_ = 1.375 _n_ bits.
  * SimplifiedSuccinctBitVector
   * uses 1 level (flat) precomputed rank().
   * requires 2 _n_ bits.
   * speeds up succinct tries which use only rank().
  * HybridSuccinctBitVector
   * uses 2 level precomputed rank() and 1 level (flat) precomputed select().
   * requires 12/8 _n_ = 1.5 _n_ bits.
   * speeds up succinct tries which use select().
 * Key completers
  * CompleterBase
   * defines a common interface of completers.
   * provides an interactive interface to get keys starting with a specified sequence one by one.
  * BasicCompleter
   * returns keys in order of the link.
   * can collaborate with any trie.
  * ValueOrderCompleter
   * returns keys in descending order of the value.
   * collaborates with a trie arranged in max value order.